---
layout: post 
title: Real Google Killer is RockMelt, Not Facebook Mail. HOW?
---

# Real Google Killer is RockMelt, Not Facebook Mail. HOW?

_November 2010_

I have been playing with Rockmelt (Social Browser) for few days. I really
want to say that I liked the idea/concept of social browser and it is a
great time saver for me.

Actually, being social does not make me productive at all, but the other
great thing about RockMelt is it’s right side bar which
includes/will-include little applications for popular websites. Right now
there are just 2 real applications (facebook and twitter) and all other
icons are just RSS readers. 

I think this widget/app concept will make RockMelt very powerful. Every
icon shows little number if there is something you should be notified as
IPhone does. For example, I have facebook, twitter, cnn and some other
blogs’ widgets on my right side bar. When there is something new in these
websites,  I can immediately see this while I am surfing on a random
website. 

Actually, all these concepts/ideas do not really sound unique to me.
RockMelt looks like Chromium OS in Regular OS except it’s facebook
modification. Let me explain some of the similarities and differences they
have.

## Single Sign-On

I think that the main reason that both companies created their own browser
is single-sign-on market. I want to call this market, because every other
thing on web era will depend on their share on this market. Both companies
are trying to gain more power on this market. If you have more users you
get more developers, If you have more developers, you get more users. This
is unavoidable and this is their REAL competition.

To be able to use Chromium OS, you need a Google Account which means that
you have to be an active Google User while you are using your
computer/laptop. Also for RockMelt, you need a Facebook account which is
basically the same thing. 

But just having active users is not enough, they need a platform for
developers. So developers can create their own applications based on these
users bases. Google has it’s own Authentication Api, and Facebook has
Facebook Connect. 

## IM/Contacts

This is the place where we see their competition these days. They both do
not want to share your most important information which is your contacts,
with anyone. Because they know that you will choose your platform (Chromium
OS/Rockmelt) based on how many important people you can communicate on
these accounts (Google/Facebook).

Google knows your contacts form your mail (gmail) and your phone
(Android/contact sync). On the other hand, Facebook knows your Friends. We
still do not know which one is more important for users. We care most about
our friends but we mostly/daily-bases communicate with other people.

In Chromium OS, you have your gtalk buddies and in RockMelt you have
Facebook Friends. IM is already integrated to browser in both of them. 

## Mail/Messaging

Gmail is the default mail application in Chromium OS, and Facebook is
creating their own messaging (SMS + MAIL) system. Facebook easily can
integrate this system with RockMelt.  

## App Store

Facebook already has a huge platform which has a thousands of applications.
These applications can be integrated to RockMelt and they can be sold in
“RockMelt’s App Store” Also, Google is creating “Web App Store” which is
basically the default App Store of Chromium OS

## OS vs Software

This is the real bet, because everything in the internet depends on how
fast it spreads. Creating a browser based OS is really cool concept, but it
is really hard to implement to the real world in near future and it has
very limited users compared to the all browser users.

But Rockmelt is just a peace of software which can run on different
platforms (windows/mac). Therefore, It will spread really fast. And in this
game time is really important.  

## Conclusion 

Google made Chrome just to make web more fast and easy. Then they created
the Chromium OS just for netbook users. I think Google have not really
realized the power of single-sign-on on the web until these months. Google
created something really cool but they did not see the power of this new
thing.

Facebook saw the future of the web because of Google Chromium OS, and they
just insert this ides into browser which can work on almost all OSes. This
is a really big avantage for Facebook.I think they will never create OS,
because in the practical-world/or-near-future nobody will change their
regular OS with browser based simple OS.

But facebook will absolutely create some type of mobile
software/os/platform to implement this idea on mobile platform as Google
did.

P.S. This is my very first blog post. Please leave me a comment. That’s why
I share my thoughts. 

Thank you for reading.
